Experience: Children doing Sprints

Scrum: 7 Sprint: container for all other events; time-box of one month
or less during which a "Done", useable, and potentially
releasable product increment is created; no changes that would
endanger the Sprint Goal; quality goals do not decrease; scope
may be clarified and re-negotiated; may only be canceled by the
Product Owner

Drive: 49 By neglecting the ingredients of genuine motivation--autonomy,
mastery, and purpose--they limit what each of us can achieve.

Drive: 57 The very presence of goals may lead employees to focus
myopically on short-term gains and to lose sight of the potential
devastating long-term effects on the organization. -Goals Gone
Wild 

Drive: 50 Goals that people set for themselves and that are
devoted to attaining mastery are usually healthy. But goals
imposed by others--sales targets, quarterly returns, standardized
test scores, and so on--can sometimes have dangerous side
effects.

Drive: 87 They were focused on the work itself rather than on
whether someone would call them a slacker for leaving at three
P.M. to watch a daughter's soccer game.

Drive: 106 Ample research has shown that people working in
self-organized teams are more satisfied than those working in
inherited teams.

Drive: 145 The science shows that the secret to high performance
isn't our biological drive or our reward-and-punishment drive,
but our third drive--our deep-seated desire to direct our own
lives, to extend and expand our abilities, and to live a life of
purpose.

Drive: 200 To what end, and to whose benefit, are our employees
being asked to give of themselves? Have we committed ourselves to
a purpose that is truly deserving of their initiative,
imagination, and passion?

Smartest: 215 When searching for a school, the leader matters more than any other factor.

Scrum: 5 Product Owner: maximize the value of the product and the
work of the Development Team; clearly express backlog items;
ordering items; ensure Product Backlog is visible and clear to
all; ensure Dev Team understands items to the level needed; 1
person

Drive: 86 Management isn't about walking around and seeing if
people are in their offices. It's about creating conditions for
people to do their best work.

Drive: 110 Control leads to compliance; autonomy leads to
engagement.

Drive: 53 After the introduction of the fine we observed a steady
increase in the number of parents coming late... The punishment
didn't promote good behavior; it crowded it out.
(Product Owner should not control the Sprint)

Drive: 137 The aims of these Motivation 3.0 companies are not to
chase profit while trying to stay ethical and law-abiding. Their
goal is to pursue purpose--and to use profit as the catalyst
rather than the objective.
(sprint goal)

Scrum: 10 Sprint Goal: any coherence that causes the Development
Team to work together rather than on separate initiatives

Smartest: 210 What are you doing right now? Why?

Quiet: P159 Positive emotion is activated "in response to the
pursuit or capture of some resource that is valued." --Daniel
Nettle

Quiet: P166 If you focus on achieving your goals...you don't want
anything to get in your way.

Drive: 72: [Self-determination theory] argues that we have three
innate psychological needs--competence, autonomy, and
relatedness. When those needs are satisified, we're motivated,
productive, and happy. When they're thwarted, our motivation,
productivity, and happiness plummet.

Drive: 93 One of these essential features is autonomy--in
particular, autonomy over four aspects of work: what people do,
when they do it, how they do it, and whom they do it with.

Scrum: 5 Development Team: define an increment, and deliver a
potentially releasable increment of "Done" product at the end of
each Sprint; self-organizing; cross-functional; no titles; no
subteams; accountability belongs to Dev Team as a whole; 3-9
members

Smartest: 209 [Students] should not be frustrated or despairing,
instead, they should be getting help when they need it,
often from each other.

Smartest: 211 If you don't understand something, what do you do?
-Dwan Jordon

Quiet: P88 Studies have shown that performance gets worse as
group size increases: groups of nine generate fewer and poorer
ideas compared to groups of six, which do worse than groups of
four (scrum team size capped at 9)

Quiet: P111 The orchid hypothesis: Many children are like
dandelions, able to thrive in just about any environment. But
others...are more like orchids: they wilt easily, but under the
right conditions can grow strong and magnificent.

Drive: 197 Demanding of knowledge workers that they define their
own task and its results is necessary because knowledge workers
must be autonomous.
(Sprint Planning)

Scrum: 8 Sprint Planning: 8 hours (per month Sprint); Development
Team selects work; Sprint Goal crafted by entire Scrum Team
(provides guidance on why the increment is being built);
Development Team decides how it will build the functionality into
a "Done" product increment

Quiet: P223 When your conscientiousness impels you to take on more than
you can handle, you begin to lose interest, even in tasks that
normally engage you.

Quiet: P168 On many kinds of tasks, particularly those performed under time or social
pressure or involving multitasking, extroverts do better. But
introverts seem to think more carefully than extroverts.
Introverts think before they act, digest information thoroughly,
stay on task longer, give up less easily, and work more
accurately.

Smartest: 209 Engaged kids didn't take much notice [in my
arrival]; they had more important things to do. Bored kids looked
back and smiled, offered a shy wave, and handed me a tissue if I
sneezed... they were desparate for a distraction.

Smartest: 211 In this class, do you learn a lot every day? -Tripod Survey

Quiet: P172 Flow is an optimal state in which you feel totally
engaged in an activity. It a state of flow, you're neither bored
nor anxious, and you don't question your own adequacy. Hours pass
by without your noticing.

Quiet: P115 Enjoyment appears at the boundary between boredom and
anxiety, when the challenges are just balanced with the person's
capacity to act. -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi

Drive: 51 When the reward is the activity itself--deepening
learning, delighting customers, doing one's best--there are no
shortcuts.
(scrum says quality cannot decline)

Scrum: 10 Daily Scrum: 15-minutes; inspect work since last Scrum
and forecast the work that could be done before the next Scrum;
impediments preventing meeting the Sprint Goal; same time and
place daily; detailed discussions often happen immediately after
Scrum; only Development Team members participate in Scrum

Experience: Clean up one thing at a time when all toys are out

Smartest: 209 There should be a sense of urgency that you can feel.

Quiet: P85 Scientists now know that the brain is incapable of
paying attention to two things at the same time. What looks like
multitasking is really switching back and forth between multiple
tasks, which reduces productivity and increases mistakes by up to
50 percent.

Smartest: 211 Does this class stay busy and not waste time?
-Tripod Survey

Scrum: 7 Development Work: (10) Sprint Goal kept in mind;
functionality and technology implemented

Drive: 125 If people are conscious of what puts them in flow,
they'll have a clearer idea of what they should devote the time
and dedication to master.
(picking Sprint tasks)

Drive: 117 Creating flow-friendly environments that help people
move toward mastery can increase productivity and satisfaction at
work.

Drive: 182 Children are naturally inclined to experience periods
of intense focus, concentration, and flow that adults should do
their best not to interrupt.

Quiet: P172 "Psychological theories usually assume that we are motivated either
by the need to eliminate an unpleasant condition like hunger or
fear, or by the expectation of some future reward such as money,
status, or prestige." But in flow, "a person could
work around the clock for days on end, for no better reason than to keep on
working." --Mihaly Csikszentmihaly

Drive: 30 Intrinsic motivation is conducive to creativity;
controlling extrinsic motivation is detrimental to creativity.
-Teresa M. Amabile

Drive: 46 For artists, scientists, inventors, schoolchildren, and
the rest of us, intrinsic motivation--the drive to do something
because it is interesting, challenging, and absorbing--is
essential for high levels of creativity.

Drive: 185 An "infinite game" has no winner and no end; the goal
is to keep playing. Nonwinnable games are much more rewarding
than the win-lose ones we're accustomed to playing at our work
and in our relationships.

Smartest: 208 Watch for signs that all the kids are paying
attention, interested in what they are doing, and working hard.
Don't check for signs of order.

Experience: Suzuki music training: listen as well as read,
memorize, music begins after notes and rhythms are correct,
progress after high quality

Scrum: 3 Scrum is lightweight, simple to understand, difficult to
master

Quiet: P209 When someone asks us "How are things?" we may give a
throwaway answer, but our true response is a function of how well
our core personal projects are going.

Smartest: 211 Do students in this class usually behave the way
your teacher wants them to? -Tripod Survey

Scrum: 11 Sprint Retrospective: 3 hours (per month Sprint); Scrum
Team inspects itself and creates a plan for improvements in the
next Sprint; after Sprint Review and before Sprint Planning; more
effective and enjoyable for the next Sprint; plan ways to
increase product quality; inspect how last Sprint went with
regards to people, relationships, process, and tools; identify
and order major items that went well

Drive: 68 The more the praise is about effort and strategy rather
than about achieving a particular outcome--the more effective it
can be.
(retrospective), see also 178

Smartest: 215 When looking for a world-class education, remember
that people always matter more than props.

Smartest: 216 How do you measure your success? Strong leaders can
clearly explain their vision. If you hear a long, vague answer,
full of many disparate parts, you may have found yourself in a
school without a mission.

Scrum: 4 inspection should not be so frequent that inspection
gets in the way of the work

Scrum: 4 adjustment must be made as soon as possible to minimize
further deviation

Scrum: 11 Sprint Review: 4 hours (per month Sprint); inspect the
increment and adapt the Product Backlog; collaborate on next
things that could be done to optimize value; presentation of the
increment is intended to elicit feedback and foster
collaboration; discuss problems overcome

Scrum: 12 Product Backlog (artifact): ordered list of everything
that might be needed in the product; never complete; exists as
long as the product does; attributes of description, order,
estimate, and value, possible grouping if multiple teams;
ordering by Product Owner; estimating by Development Team; higher
items are clearer and more detailed than lower items; at any
point, remaining work to reach a goal can be summed

Scrum: 13 Product Backlog refinement: 10% of Development Team
capacity, or less; Product Owner and Development team collaborate
on the details of Product Backlog items, increasing clarity and
detail, refining so any one item can be reasonably Done within a
Sprint; Development Team creates more precise estimates

Scrum: 15 Done: everyone must understand what "Done" means;
varies significantly per Scrum Team; used to assess when work is
complete; as Scrum Teams mature, their definitions of "Done" will
expand to include more stringent criteria for higher quality

Scrum: 4 Those performing the work and those accepting the work product
must share a common definition of "Done".

Scrum: 14 Sprint Backlog (artifact): a forecast by the Development Team
about what functionality will be in the next increment, and the
work needed to deliver that functionality; consists of items
taken from the Product Backlog, plus a plan for delivering the
product and accomplishing the Sprint Goal; modified by the
Development Team during the Sprint; only the Development Team can
change the Sprint Backlog; at any point in time, the total work
remaining in the Sprint Backlog can be summed

Scrum: 16 Scrum exists only in its entirety

Scrum: 7 prescribed events are used in Scrum to create regularity
and to minimize the need for meetings not defined in Scrum

Drive: 199 The results-only work environment (ROWE):
* People at all levels stop doing any activity that is a waste of
  their time, the customer's time, or their company's time.
* Employees have the freedom to work any way they want.
* Every meeting is optional.
* There are no work schedules.

Smartest: 214 In most of the highest-performing systems,
technology is remarkably absent from classrooms. -Andreas
Schleicher

Scrum: 15 Scrum Master: work with the Scrum Team and the
organization to increase the transparency of the artifacts;
learning, convincing; change; (6) facilitating Scrum events;
removing impediments; coaching

Drive: 194 People with a high level of personal mastery are able
to consistently realize the results that matter most deeply to
them.
(high value backlog and average Sprint velocity)

Scrum: 3 knowledge comes from experience and making decisions
based on what is known. Pillars: transparency, inspection,
adaptation

Quiet: P265 Spend your free time the way you like, not the way
you think you're supposed to.


